Claude Design just dropped. And it can
now make beautiful slides, websites,
apps, videos, graphics, and so much
more. And in this video, I'm going to
show you exactly how to build any of
these designs in minutes. Build
professional design systems for your
business and use cases I've not seen
anybody talk about on YouTube and how to
build these programmatically on
autopilot. And if you don't know who I
am, my name is Jack Roberts. I built and
sold my last tech startup with 60,000
customers and now I run several AI
businesses. I'm currently in LA drinking
this beautiful coffee. So, if you
haven't grabbed yours yet, do that and
let's dive straight in. Now, Claude Code
Design is available on the online app.
If you come on to claude.ai, on the
left-hand side you'll see this beautiful
design thing. You click it and then it
will literally appear for us. Now, the
first thing that we're going to do is
build your your own unique design
system. That means whenever you're
creating anything, it's going to crush.
And then I'm going to show you some
incredible use cases on that. But first
of all, we just need to take a step back
and understand what this design system
is so you know when to use it and how to
use it. And it's best explained with the
following. And that's the fact that if
you think about your Claude Code Design
system, okay, as a code-first visual
prototyping engine. Jack, what the hell
does that mean? It basically mean the
idea is that if you think about design
as code, when it's code and once you
kind of program what great looks like,
you can effectively build any design you
want to on autopilot for any system,
presentations, slide decks, websites,
you name it. It's powered by Opus 4.7,
the best model on the planet right now,
and it bridges the gap between any code
that you make and beautiful design.
That's kind of like the jumbo idea
about. So, when you're thinking of this,
think of it as code-first design and
it's only ever going to get better. Now,
let's talk about the stack. Think about
in the Claude ecosystem, you have Claude
Design is Think of that as your personal
designer now. Claude Code is your
developer and then all the other things
that we talk about connect to your
world. This is how we connect to things
like your emails and like any other part
of your planet, which is awesome. Now,
what can we build? We can build
effectively anything with this stuff.
So, I think probably the best way to
just explain is to do one together. But
on the left-hand side, if you can see,
this is where you're going to pretty
much decide what you want to build
whenever you're building anything. Could
be a wireframe. High fidelity just means
something that you can actually interact
it and use with. And on the right-hand
side, you'll have all the recent files.
You'll have all the designs that you've
saved. And under examples, these are a
list of things, the kind of things that
you can build. If you copy the prompt
and enter it in, you'll then be able to
get the exact same output. Like this is
a really good idea, text particle
effects, you know, it says something and
it shows it. Organic loaders. You get a
sense of what you can do. Effectively
now, we're only limited by our
imagination. But then the question
really becomes, "Okay, Jack, that's
great, but what should I do and how do I
go about this?" And there's so much you
can do, it can feel a little
overwhelming. And this leads us on to
the biggest thing that's going to save
you the most time with this Claude Code
Design system, and that's effectively
building out your own design system that
you can use for anything you're
building, whether it's apps, websites,
or systems, and it is actually
unbelievably easy to set up. And I'd
like you to think of this as your
anti-slop mode. Every output that you
create can inherit the style and we can
create as many of these styles as we
like to with the design system, which is
really cool. So, let's think about what
that looks like and how we can do it
together. Wonderful. So, now we have
Claude Design. What you're going to find
on the left-hand side is this thing that
says set up design system. So, to set up
your design system, again, click on this
button here that says set up design
system, ironically. And then we can
start to give it a little bit of
information, which is cool. Starting
with company name and blurb. So, this
could just be for you, Jack Roberts
Design system. Wonderful. And by the
way, this is Glide I'm using. I'll put
them a link down below so you can get a
month completely free if you want to
check it out. Now, we've got link for
code in GitHub. So, effectively, what we
can do here is feed it in existing
design repository we've got. If you've
got a GitHub project, for example, I
have a design system with
aiwithjack.com, right? This is a
specific thing that I have. I might I
might like this. I may want to bring
this into my system for me to play
around with and use. In which case, I
could just easily do that for us. So,
again, if you have a GitHub repo, you
can add that in. I'm going to add in a
Figma file for my design system. So,
I've got mine here, which has my
background, a few different colors and
things. So, to do this in Figma, I'm
going to come down here and grab this.
The point is, it doesn't matter exactly
where it is. The The point is that
whatever your design system is, we can
now bring it in. So, let me save this as
a local copy. All right, I'm going to
come over and just drop this file in
here. Cool. I'm going to say, "Yeah, but
it's great. We're going to attach
everything we downloaded." That's
wonderful. And we can add fonts, logos,
assets, essentially anything you want
to. So, for example, if you have a
folder on your desktop, which I highly
recommend that you do, drop in your
company logos, drop in all the
information on one folder on your
desktop called design, and then just
throw this in here and our Claude can
use this when it's building things out.
And then we can give it some notes. So,
I might say something like, "For my
design system, I like to keep things
simple, visually easy to understand.
When I'm building things like
presentations, I like to do one point
one slide, a premium feel, but also like
very visually engaging using beautiful
subtle animations." Whatever your thing
is. And then once you've given a prompt
you're happy with, I'm just going to
prove this a little bit. "Hey Glide,
could you just make this prompt slightly
longer and more detailed to achieve my
intended effect, please?" Because I
think it's important that you want to
give Claude specific instructions
without being too specific. Yeah, that
sounds good. Let's save that one in
there. And when that's all done, all
we're going to do is come down here to
generation. Then basically it takes
about 5 minutes to build your system.
So, now I can click on generate. And as
this is building, you'll see on the
left-hand side everything it's doing.
Now, the reason why this is so important
to do is that if you don't give or
create your own design system, every
design that you create is likely to look
like more or less like everybody else's
design. So, really take the second to
build out something that's unique,
that's yours, in any style you want to,
and then we can use it whenever we're
building anything within Claude. And for
example, if you do get a folder on your
desktop with everything in, like I have
one here for Jack's assets. I've got
brand guidelines. I've got my background
patterns. I even have fonts I had
created, which are really handy. You can
just upload these all to Claude and
it'll use them for you. And then
effectively, you can go down here and
review everything. If you think it looks
good, we can say, "Hey, that looks great
for me. Do I like this? That looks
awesome." And just go through and decide
everything. And look, it's even pulled
through the specific fonts I had, and
you can tell that because it's exactly
what I have on my YouTube channel. And
it's even pulled up my primary colors,
which is the exact styles that I have.
And again, you can see this right here
at the top, the blue, the orange, and
that font. And has Claude actually
successfully pulled it through? Yeah,
it's done an awesome job. So, literally
just go through and approve or
disapprove everything that you like. And
so, for example, this is suggesting a
signature gradient. I'm going to say,
"Hey dude, there's too much blue and
orange. I kind of want blue bottom left,
orange bottom right, and then white in
the middle with kind of dots behind it
so it looks a lot better." And what's
crazy, guys, it's also even pulled up
the specific logo style that I had.
Obviously, I don't see Jack GPT anytime,
so I need to give that feedback, but you
get the idea. And unbelievably, it's
actually come back and done the
signature gradient. So, let's give it a
little more feedback. "Hey dude, I want
it I want it to blend a little bit more.
It's a bit too sharp. So again, I want
like the gradient kind of like opacity
to fade off fade off into zero and
obviously just increase the height on
the left and the right and increase the
number of dots as well, please. It
should look sleek and beautiful." And
voila, it's come back and give us a
logo. I think that's actually pretty
good. Again, you can just go back and
forth. And like this is that really
worth the 10 minutes it takes just to
nail this stuff down. And once we're
happy with it, we can select that one
off. And again, guys, you go back and
forth. And look, it's pulled through all
the arrows in my design system. And if
you're finding it's not getting it
correct, on the left-hand side, you can
just upload the images and say, "Dude, I
really like this and I like this and I
don't like this." And it will add it in
and you go through this review system to
find something that's perfect. This
looks fine. As you can see, the number
of things that need to review just goes
down the more that you feed it. Guys,
look at these. This is fantastic. These
app icon pills. You can see everything
now. It looks gorgeous. And you can see
on the right-hand side now it's got
everything that's going through. It's
like we're just reviewing this,
reviewing that to get everything
complete. And once that's complete, you
can click on this new design using the
system. And one limitation to be aware
of as well is the token usage of this
thing. 4.7, for all its wonderful
benefits, is really freaking hungry,
which means that it can burn through
your $20 per month subscription very
quickly. Maybe you could do one or two
big animations a week, but after that
you'll need to wait till the next one
until you've hit your limit, unless
you're on the max plan. So, that's just
something that you may find based on how
many things you're designing. So, let's
recreate exactly what we've just done.
We've given our GitHub repos,
screenshots, Figma like I gave it, or
just simple screenshots, right? It could
be a competitive site that you love that
you think, "Dude, I love this website. I
would love a brand style just like
that." AI can help us do that now. And
obviously, we can iterate with it just
like I showed you. As always, few tips.
You want a wireframe first. You want to
name the components if you can. You want
to kind of be specific as humanly
possible. Again, design basically tight
design systems mean that it's going to
be replicable over time. And then
obviously, what we want to do is feed it
your own website if you're using that.
So, once you've created an actual
website design system, just to show you
what this looks like, it'll You can
select these design systems here. So, if
you have several clients, you can have
several different design systems or for
different functionalities that you had.
You're going to pick whether you want
wireframe or high fidelity. Wireframe is
just the outline. High fidelity would be
something you can use. So, let's say we
want to do something like video slides.
And then I come down here and click on
create. And then effectively, what we're
going to do here is go through and ask
it to create something for us. So, let's
say for example, we want to give it just
a test. I could say something like, "Hey
there, go ahead and create for me three
slides specifically on ways that
business owners could use AI to be more
profitable or more efficient." And what
I might do come down here and say, "I'd
love you to use any graphical
annotations, HTML styles, anything to
give a little degree of interactivity
inside the actual design stack itself."
Now, obviously, we've got our own design
system already preloaded into this, so
we don't need to do anything. We can
just hit send on that. And to get that
up, we just click on design system like
so, and you'll see there's a Jack
Roberts Design system, which is awesome.
We're going to go ahead and use that.
And then come down and click off send.
And then once that's done, we'll get a
full deck that should match all our
brand guidelines. I'm seeing the blue.
We've got the blueberries and things,
and it should be interactive. Again,
just a random prompt, but you get the
idea of how this all connects together.
But the cool thing with the slide decks,
guys, is it could be in any style that
you want to. For example, I one that I
built here was this beautiful thing for
Claude Code full course that I'm doing.
Look at the interactivity of this. Like
that I've got on my computer. You can go
down and it's just absolutely gorgeous,
the kind of stuff that you can build.
Now, let's say for example, we came back
over here to Claude and And wanted to
build something that wasn't in the
design system. I just I look Let's say
that I like the look of this website
here, ClickUp. And I thought, you know,
I really like the design of ClickUp. How
could I use the ClickUp brand very
easily in a design? Well, we come back
over which is going to copy the URL of
the website, come back over here, no
design system, come down here and call
this one something like Let's call it
ClickUp design. All right. Come down
here and click on create. Then it will
stop here, which is cool. Now, what I'm
going to do is give it a few different
things. We can give it a screenshot. I'm
going to drop in the URL really quickly
as well. Just say, "I would like you to,
based on the design systems in this
particular website, quote for me a
gorgeous slide deck. Maybe call it five
or so slides." All right. Then let's
start dropping in some screenshots for
inspiration. So, I'm on the ClickUp
side. I can come down here. Let's just
get some gorgeous screenshots here.
That's really nice and tasty. Just copy
that one. All right. And this also looks
really cool. Let's come down and just
copy this, for example, and then come
straight back over to ClickUp, drop it
in. Then I'm going to give it a little
uh addition prompt like, "I'd like you
to really look at kind of like the
interactivity and subtle HTML animations
as well." And you can also basically
decide what model you want by clicking
on the little cog and you can see you've
got all the different models here. If
Claude 4.7 Opus is very uh particularly
token hungry for you, but it is
obviously the best model. When we're
done with that, we can just hit off and
click on send. But we're going to want
to have to give it a little bit of an
overview first. So, what I recommend
that we do is come over to ClickUp and
let's just copy all of the text on the
page, come straight back over here, and
then we can drop it in. One little hack
you can do as well that I don't see I
haven't really seen mentioned is if you
come over to ClickUp, you copy the
website, and then you go over to Google
and just type in HTML website extractor.
Okay, click on this website here. And
then if you just enter in any URL, you
will get the HTML version of that
website. What that effectively means is
that we can pretty much just recreate
the website on our computer. But when we
give that to the Claude Code design
system, which I can come over here and
do for you real quick, come down here
and just going to upload that.
Beautiful. And then I can be like, "One
thing I'd like you to do is on these
slides, just give me like a TLDR
overview of ClickUp and why it's so
valuable." Now, this can think about use
case of this. You've got a presentation
for anybody or maybe you're doing a
YouTube video and you want slides talk
through. You can drop in scripts for
video, ideas, websites, and turn
anything into any other format.
Basically, you can just switch them
around easily just by what I would call
vibe designing, right? Drop things in
that you think are pretty cool and do
it. Now, it does play the question why
design is really important in the first
place. Uh it comes down to how we think,
right? System two thinking, your
intellectual side, and system one, your
ape brain that just sees red equals bad
and green equals good. The less that we
can make people think, the better the
the more quickly they're going to make
decisions. So, for example, we just want
to make that process as easy as
possible. Good design systems like this
help us do it, which takes them from a
no to a yes much faster. Beautiful,
guys. And look at this. One place for
all your work. They have crossed the
gradient pretty quickly. Let's have a
quick look at what we're dealing with
here. If I click on the next slide,
let's have a look. Work lives
everywhere, not at one. So, different
flying logos. I would like to added some
logos in here, but again, you can do
that just by providing the logos to
Claude. Replace a draw with one
workspace. So, we've got a little bit of
a mini overlap issue, which we can fix
there. But again, it's got everything
down. And it's kind of actually captured
the identity and the gradient so well.
Like this is a gorgeous design. There's
no question about that this is a
gorgeous design. And that was one shot.
I've done not a single edit to this. And
one thing I'd call out as well is that
when you're giving AI your design
systems, a bad design system is actually
worse than no design system because
you're kind of instructing it to do like
things that aren't actually correct. So,
unless you're really sure on the things
you're definitely going to give it, I
would let it run free a little bit. But
obviously, it's better to have your own
thing. This is really cool. I love the
look of this. Honestly, really
impressive. You can build design systems
like this. And then basically, if I save
this as a style, I can now whip it up
anytime I'm doing any kind of content.
And then obviously, if there's something
we don't like and obviously get the font
the sizes, you can play around with this
all as you like. And we've also got this
draw functionality where you can
literally highlight things like this and
then basically give it comments. So, I
might say, "Hey, this is being cut off."
And I click send. And then we can get
everything amended and then proceed as
we like. And when we have a design we
think is really cool, couple of things
that we can need to get out. Obviously,
you can always change the percentage
viewport. You can draw on it. You can
edit. You can drop comments. Also
tweaks, which is cool. If you want to
like ask it to improve it like, "Hey, I
think this could be a little bit
simpler. We're really overcomplicating
this slide." Give that feedback to
Claude as you go through and then it
will actually go ahead and start working
on that. Then always at the end, you can
export at the top PDF, PowerPoint, send
it to Canva, or export a standard HTML,
which we're going to come back to later
in this video. And then once you've done
that, effectively you can hand it back
off to Claude or basically progress with
it as you'd like. Now, if you're
presenting this, you may just open it up
as a full screen. I just come on present
mode here uh in this tab or full screen.
And now we can go through and just
present this to people as we go through
in our content. And we have this
gorgeous, beautiful animation for that.
One little thing as well, if you do
export as HTML, it's probably the best
way to do that. If I export a
stand-alone HTML, you'll basically have
this thing down here to download the
ClickUp TLDR um stand-alone as HTML. You
click on save that, for example. And
then here, once I click on open here,
you'll see it's now in its own unique
page. So, for example, if I'm now
presenting, I go, "Hey, guys. Welcome."
And then I just go through the whole
presentation just like that. So, now
we've got a beautiful presentations. One
of the biggest use cases we can actually
do with Claude design is one of its most
powerful applications. And that's
building beautiful websites. Now, of
course, there are a million ways to skin
a cat. But what we're going to do in
this one again is come back to
prototype. And we can do wireframe. So,
basically get a wireframe version which
is cool. And move to high fidelity.
Completely all cool. But let's go for
high fidelity. We'll call this one
something like Framer 2.0. Come down and
click on create. So, let's say for
example, I really like the look of this
website. I thought it was gorgeous. I
think it's a style that I really like
and I wanted to replicate it. Well, one
of the things I might do first of all is
come back over to our wonderful thing
here. And what I'm going to do here is
just You're going to select the design
systems that you want, right? So, let me
bring this over. And we're going to add
in different informations, okay? It's
going to come down here. I'm going to
drop in uh the website link. I might
actually go and grab some of the HTML
from the website to help Claude design
it if it wants. And then we're going to
come back over, drop in screenshots, do
everything we want to. And then I'll
just say something like, "Hey there,
could you build me a beautiful, gorgeous
website based on all of this uh
structure and design principles? And I'd
like you to do it for me based on a
business that helps businesses build
beautiful websites to drive various
different vibes to our business and lots
of AI services." So, pretty broad
prompt, but you get the idea. I want to
show you really just how this actually
go ahead and construct a website, then
how you can take that website to
actually publish it online for whatever
you want to. So, come down here and
click on send. And then just like that,
on one shot, this is what we've got.
Look at this gorgeous font. Book us to
do it, cool. And we've got these tweaks
down here in the bottom right. If I want
to tweak from orange to green, to pink.
I mean, it's really cool. I think it's
really decent that they've kind of
really thought about how you'll actually
go and design cuz design capability and
then how easy it is to design are two
different things sometimes. So, I think
that's fantastic. And then obviously,
we've got the website headline. Really
sweet. They've brought this across very
nice and then got these trusted brand.
Very cool. Every service your business
sells on. We've got different things
there. Very crisp. I'm liking the look
of this. I'm going to come down here.
It's very sweet. And now we've got the
full, beautiful website here ready to
rock and roll. And obviously, just like
before, if I want to change the way that
something looks, like I want to draw on
something, I might say, "I really, you
know, I like I want to come down here."
Select the draw icon. I can just circle
this and be like, "I don't know. Um
let's say, can you make this slightly
more interactive for me?" And then let's
send that one off. And then off the back
of that feedback, it's actually gone and
changed it. And of course, we can just
move this in any direction we want to.
This is just an example. Very broad,
very top. Now, at the top, let's say I
want to actually take this and build
this into a website. How would I do
that? Well, the first thing we do is
come down to export number one. And you
can export as many different things.
What you're going to do here, okay? You
can do handoff to Claude Code at the
bottom or export a project as a zip.
We're going to come down to handoff to
Claude Code. Then we can do is click on
copy command like so. And then you're
going to open up the Claude desktop app.
Now, when you're in the Claude Code
desktop app, you can maybe even code on
the top right-hand side. And you're just
going to paste in that command like so.
Hit enter. And then Claude Code will be
able to go and grab that for you because
it's all connected to the same account.
And then within Claude Code, we can open
this up in what's called a local host.
Which just means that all the files live
on your computer, right? And then it
just open up. And then from that, we can
post it onto Vercel, which is a place
that hosts our website. If you want a
full guide on doing exactly that, I'll
put a link on screen so you can click
that and get started. And one thing to
bear in mind is when you do export it
into Claude Code, it will be in HTML.
So, what you're going to want to do is
build that out into various different
front-end design frameworks that Claude
can do beyond just a simple HTML
framework. So, that's just one thing to
bear in mind when you do export it. And
the reason we do that is cuz then we can
get different levels of animation and
design and it just will look to a
complete different level. Now, websites
are just the beginning. We can go so
much further thinking about apps and
product demos and various different
things that can apply to pretty much any
area of your business. For example, on
the homepage here at Sub, we have these
wonderful organic loaders like these are
different animations. And like a good
example is this calculator here, right?
But let's say I want to use this prompt,
right? But what I want to do is I want
to integrate into my website a ROI
calculator. Like, "Hey, you work with me
at JR Enterprises, this is how much
return on investment you can expect to
get." So, I've just said to use this
prompt. But what I'm going to do is
highlight this prompt. And I'm just
going to use Glider here. "Hey, Glider,
could you rewrite this prompt so that it
would apply for a return on investment
calculator for an insurance's business,
please?" Because one of the things
that's really interesting here is we can
design HTML within the Claude Code
ecosystem. And from that, that's
awesome. Go ahead and click on send. And
then effectively, once we've done that,
we can just embed it into our exact
website. Now, the reason why it's cool
that we're doing that within the Claude
Code design system here is because we
can preload all of our design
preferences. So, I think the way that
this is going to go is that you're going
to start here, build it initially, and
then it will branch out. It will branch
out into Claude Code for your websites
and apps to build proper stuff. Or maybe
branch out over here and then we'll just
embed it in websites. So, this will be
the starting point in many cases. You
may never need to leave. But in some
cases, we just end up exporting it
somewhere else. And then beautiful we
have this great design system here so
you can pick up the various different
things and you can see interacting
moving on the right hand side. So
project completion 73.2% this is really
cool. I mean obviously you can play
around with it like your premium maybe
this goes up a little bit maybe they've
got like a million dollars all this
great stuff and then we can embed this
into our website as something
interactive that they can use. To do
that once again if you want to present
to the client we just do this and we can
share that. So maybe you've got a call
and you're running through some ideas
and projections well we can spin these
things up now on Cloud Design and just
say cool well let's just see the length
is 40 years or whatever it is and we can
like work this together and workshop it
or we could just embed the entire thing
in a website. And the reason we can do
that is because it's basically code and
we just take that code just like I
showed you before all you're going to do
is literally come down to export you're
going to basically hand off the Cloud
code and then from that you can do that
if you've already built your website
with Cloud code and that's already
integrated like in the videos I show on
my channel you can just connect it
straight away. And in addition to that
Cloud can also add and make videos so I
could come down here and say YouTube
video I could come down to high fidelity
click on create and then I could come
down to prompt and say something like
hey there I'd like to create for me a
brief 10 second animation for the below
section of my video script. I want it to
be minimalistic beautiful HTML
animations simplistic and almost like a
black background very simple thank you.
And then I'll just drop in some text so
that could for example be any
information and just like this guy is
now we have this full system for like a
basically video animation which is just
the intro of this slides website and
look at the beautiful animation that all
pops up. I think that is really gorgeous
and that was just off basically one
prompt to design this and just go
through and now we're basically building
videos with this exact technology. What
we can do to get this thing is come over
here click on export at the top and just
like before we can hand off the Cloud
code if we want to or export it as
various different things. So this means
that we've looked at websites which is
awesome we've looked at how you can
build simple aspects to apps not the
full apps but just some slight
interactivity. We've covered the
animations and tags and we've also seen
how to get it out of Cloud code design
and on to compute your computer to
basically integrate with anything. But
when it comes to actually how do I scale
this up programmatically Jack how do I
get my design system do something
awesome? Well let me show you exactly
how that works. So if I come back over
now to this system I'm going to come
back over to the home and what I want
you to do on here is click on design
systems at the top and then you'll see
all your design systems. What you're
effectively going to do is come over
select the one that you want so in this
case it would be the Jack Roberts design
system I'm going to open that up and
when it's open what I can actually do is
come down here and export them. And you
can export this download as a zip like
so. Now once you've exported it here's
the key differential right? If you want
to do agency work that's going to scale
massively you run into the last
limitation of this. This is a user base
product to get someone who's fairly new
and fresh with it to make design
incredible and it also makes things a
lot easier right? If you want to scale
this systematically say that you built
something really beautiful within Cloud
Design. We get the design perfect we
export it just like I've showed you then
effectively we're going to basically
skip the general interface and we're
going to ship it from the Cloud code app
itself by downloading the Cloud desktop
app and opening it up. Then once you're
here or in anti-gravity for example you
can come down here and upload the exact
thing that you did or you could just say
hey I want you to grab the files from
the last thing that I downloaded and
then from here what we can basically do
is just say I want you to create these
for me programmatically. We can even if
we want to click on routines on the left
hand side and then come over click a
brand new routine and we could click on
local or remote if we want to say remote
I've done a full video I'll put this
link on screen for you to check it out
but effectively then we can
programmatically create this. And we can
set up an automation such that I create
a video script that lives like online
for me and the second that that's
updated I can have a routine that
triggers that and turns that into a
video for me and either saves it on my
desktop or sends it to my team. And so
we can link Cloud Design with anything
else that we want to and that is how you
programmatically scale this up to get 10
20 50 100 different ones running for you
whenever you want to. And you can't
really scale your design systems unless
you actually understand how to use that
routine's function which we're going to
do by watching this video right here.